TERM 2 
500 Word Report
Jacob Fielding


During this project I was in a group with Kevin and Callum, initially, we were struggling to come up with a concept after we all brainstormed I suggested the possibility of using the game mechanics of ‘penny up’. this is game as I used to play virtually every day in secondary school along with hundreds of fellow students everybody would be addicted and entertained by this simple but effective game all be it we were gambling while playing it, the mechanics are very simple and effective and could be implemented without the gambling aspect.


 I then decided to really research into ‘penny up’ and shockingly there was a lot of research to take away. this game has many different names and many different variations with minor changes but all in all, it boils down to throwing a coin against a flat surface and whoever's coin is closest to the wall wins. research showed that this game originated during the ancient Greek times and was believed to be used in the Olympics and people have never stopped playing it since yet not on an athletic scale, it has now been turned into more of a pass time among from or a really simple way to gamble.
 so we decided to take these ancient game mechanics and merge it with a modern story or narrative this is where we decided on toy story. we then started sketching up concepts of how we could use the game mechanics of penny up the narrative of toy story and the power of AR to produce an interesting interactive Game. which we decided on simply sliding your finger up the phone and the coin being released towards the wall simulating the real-life experience of throwing a coin at a wall. 


After we had the mechanics and concept looked I came up with a potential concept of using ‘Toy Story Tokens’ rather than coins as the game ‘penny up’ is linked to gambling so I wanted to try distance our concept from that aspect. The Idea of the tokens would always have a Competitive nature to the game, for example, all users could start with a basic buzz light year token and the more wins they achieve the more characters they could unlock.


 After this I started to research into sounds that relate to Toy Story and to penny up, for example, we would have a jingling sound when the coin hits the wall, we could use toy story specific songs swell as jeopardy style soundtracks within toy story. 


To conclude this project I really enjoyed working with Kevin and Callum I believe we collaborated all our ideas and skills together well to produce a really interesting viable concept. Adding to this I felt the task was really interesting it gave us a lot of freedom to pick and chose our own path which for me especially I enjoyed using the mechanics of a game that I used to play within our concept this made me more passionate about the idea and giving me knowledge on the mechanics of our game.